Why Java Platform independent ?   -- write once, run anywhere
 - Java language was developed so that it does not depend on any hardware or software because the compiler compiles the code and
   then converts it to platform-independent byte code which can be run on multiple systems.
   The only condition to run that byte code is for the machine to have a runtime environment (JRE) installed in it.

Why Java not pure OPPS ?
- Java is not considered a pure object-oriented programming (OOP) language because it includes elements that are not objects. 
 -Specifically, Java uses primitive data types like int, char, boolean, float, etc., which are not objects and do not belong to any class. 
 -  Java allows static methods, which are not associated with objects but with classes. 
      In a purely OOP language, every function or method would be called on an object, not directly on a class.


**Stack: Stores method details and local variables. It grows when you call methods and shrinks when methods finish.
Heap: Stores objects created with new. The stack only holds the reference (pointer) to these objects, not the objects themselves.

Difference between Java and C++
1. Java is platform independent,  C ++ is platfrom dependent
2. Java doesnot support goto statement, multiple inheritance, pointer,,,, where as C++ does
3. Java allows OOPS model,  C++ allows both oops and procedural programming, in PP we write functions to perform tasks.
4. Java is used for developing web and mob apps and also desktop apps, C++ maily used  for desktop app development.

Difference between local variable and instance variable
1. Instance variable = these var can be accessed by any method and they are declared outside the method and inside the class.
2. Local Variable = these var are defined inside a method / block/ constructor, they are accessible within them.
                     - Whenever a local variable is declared inside a method, the other class methods don’t have any knowledge about the local variable.

What are default values assigned to the variables?
- It depends on the data types , if it is reference then null, if it is a numeric, then 0, if it is a boolean then false.

Data encapsulation in oops - it is important oops concept and it focuses on  hiding internal  details of an object , exposing only the necessary parts.
                           - It helps protecting the data from unintendedd or harmful access.
                           - The internal state (variables or data) of an object is kept private, meaning it cannot be accessed directly from outside the class.
                           - To access or modify this private data, public methods (often called getters and setters) are provided. This allows controlled access to the data.


difference between equals() method and equality operator (==) in Java?
- == will check if two things are pointing to the same object in the memory
- equals will check only the value or content.

String a = new String("Hello");
String b = new String("Hello");

System.out.println(a == b); // false, because a and b are two different objects in memory  // a.equals(b) - true



An infinite loop in Java is a loop that never stops running because the loop's exit condition is never met. 
while (true) {
    System.out.println("This is an infinite loop");
}
for (int i = 0; i >= 0; i++) {
    System.out.println("This is an infinite loop");
}


Constructor Overloading -  It is the process of creating multiple constructors in the class consisting of the same name with a difference in the constructor parameters
                        - Constructor overloading in Java allows you to create multiple constructors in a class to initialize objects in different ways.
                        - To avoid code duplication, improving readability, 
                        - Different constructors can provide default values for certain attributes while allowing specific values for others.


Can the  main method be overlaoded in Java?
- Yes, main method can be overloaded. 
- Overloading occurs when two or more methods in the same class have the same name but different parameter lists (different types or numbers of parameters).
- public class MainMethodOverloading {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Main method with String array");
        main(5); // calling overloaded main method
    }

    public static void main(int number) {
        System.out.println("Overloaded main method with int: " + number);
    }

    public static void main(String arg1, String arg2) {
        System.out.println("Overloaded main method with two String arguments: " + arg1 + ", " + arg2);
    }
}
The first main method takes a String[] as an argument, which is the standard signature required for the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to start the program.


Method Overloading
Definition: Method overloading occurs when two or more methods in the same class have the same name but different parameter lists (different types or numbers of parameters).
Overloading is resolved at compile time.  // return will be same.

Method overriding is when a method in a subclass has the same name, return type, and parameters as a method in its superclass (parent class). 
This happens when there is an inheritance relationship between the two classes.
the subclass "overrides" the behavior of the method from the parent class, allowing it to give a more specific implementation.


Final Keyword in Variable, method, Class:
- final variable:
When a variable is declared as final in Java, the value can’t be modified once it has been assigned.
If any value has not been assigned to that variable, then it can be assigned only by the constructor of the class.

- final method:
A method declared as final cannot be overridden by its children's classes.
A constructor cannot be marked as final because whenever a class is inherited, the constructors are not inherited. Hence, marking it final doesn't make sense.

- final class:
No classes can be inherited from the class declared as final. But that final class can extend other classes for its usage.



When can we SUPER keyword in Java?
- You can use super to call a method from the parent class that has been overridden in the child class.
- You can use super() to call a constructor of the parent class from the child class constructor. This must be the first statement in the child class constructor.
- If a child class has a variable with the same name as a variable in its parent class, you can use super to differentiate between them.


Can the static methods be overloaded?
Yes! There can be two or more static methods in a class with the same name but differing input parameters.


Why is the main method static in Java?
The main method is always static because static members are those methods that belong to the classes, not to an individual object. So if the main method will not be static then for every object, It is available.
And that is not acceptable by JVM. JVM calls the main method based on the class name itself. Not by creating the object.
Because there must be only 1 main method in the java program as the execution starts from the main method. So for this reason the main method is static. 


Can the static methods be overridden?  // DATA HIDING
- No Static methods cant be overridden.
- Static methods belong to the class itself rather than to any specific instance of the class. 
  When you call a static method, the version that gets executed is determined at compile time, based on the reference type, not at runtime like instance methods.


Static Methods and Static variables are those methods and variables that belong to the class of the java program, not to the object of the class. 
This gets memory where the class is loaded. And these can directly be called with the help of class names.
For example - We have used mathematical functions in the java program like - max(), min(), sqrt(), pow(), etc. And if we notice that, 
then we will find that we call it directly with the class name. Like - Math.max(), Math.min(), etc. So that is a static method. 

Static classes - A class in the java program cannot be static except if it is the inner class. If it is an inner static class, then it exactly works like other static members of the class.

ClassLoader in Java is responsible for loading classes into memory, allowing the JVM to find and use the classes required for executing a program.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is singleton class and how can we implement it ?
- Singleton classes are those classes, whose objects are created only once. And with only that object the class members can be accessed. 


String, String Builder, String Buffer:   - These are used to handle texts.
- String - it is immutable, 



            INTERFACE & ABSTRACT
Availability of Methods: Only abstract methods (until Java 8, which allows default and static methods).	Can have both abstract methods (without a body) and concrete methods (with a body).
Variable Types: 	Only static and final variables (constants) can be declared.	Can have static, non-static, final, and non-final variables.
Inheritance: Supports multiple inheritance (a class can implement multiple interfaces).	Does not support multiple inheritance (a class can extend only one abstract class).
Data Member Accessibility:	All members are public by default; cannot have private or protected members.	Can have protected, private, or public members.


In Java, static as well as private method overriding is possible. Comment on the statement.
The statement in the context is completely False. The static methods have no relevance with the objects, and these methods are of the class level.
In the case of a child class, a static method with a method signature exactly like that of the parent class can exist without even throwing any compilation error.

The phenomenon mentioned here is popularly known as method hiding, and overriding is certainly not possible. 
Private method overriding is unimaginable because the visibility of the private method is restricted to the parent class only. 



HashMap & TreeSet:
- these are data strutures in java. They work in diff way and serve diff purpose.

HashMap is like a dictionary in real life. It store data in form of key value pairs.
- we can add, remove, find items by using label(key)
HashMap<String, Integer> ages = new HashMap<>();
        
        // Adding key-value pairs
        ages.put("John", 25);
        ages.put("Alice", 30);
        ages.put("Bob", 22);
        
        // Getting a value using a key
        System.out.println(ages.get("Alice")); 

A TreeSet is like a collection of items, but the items are automatically sorted in a specific order (usually ascending).
- It only stores unique values, if you add any duplicate items, it will ignore.
- TreeSet<Integer> numbers = new TreeSet<>();
        
        // Adding elements (TreeSet automatically sorts them)
        numbers.add(10);
        numbers.add(5);
        numbers.add(20);
        numbers.add(15);
        
        // The elements will be stored in sorted order
        System.out.println(numbers); // Output: [5, 10, 15, 20]


Feature	HashMap	TreeSet
Stores:	Key-value pairs (like a dictionary),	Only unique values (sorted automatically)
Order:	No specific order,	Sorted (usually in ascending order)
Duplicate Keys/Values: 	No duplicate keys,	No duplicate values


JVM: Runs Java bytecode on any machine.
JRE: Contains the JVM and libraries required to run Java programs.
JDK: Contains the JRE and development tools (like a compiler) for writing and developing Java programs.
 d - r -v 

What are the differences between HashMap and HashTable in Java?
HashMap	HashTable
HashMap is not synchronized thereby making it better for non-threaded applications.	HashTable is synchronized and hence it is suitable for threaded applications.
Allows only one null key but any number of null in the values.	This does not allow null in both keys or values.

Throw : 
- to actually throw an exception
- to manually trigger  an exception

Throws:
- The throws keyword is used in a method declaration to indicate that the method might throw an exception.
It tells the calling method or user that this method might throw certain types of exceptions, and they should handle it.

Constructor,	Method  Differences:
Constructor is used for initializing the object state., 	Method is used for exposing the object's behavior.
Constructor has no return type.,	Method should have a return type. Even if it does not return anything, return type is void.
Constructor gets invoked implicitly., 	Method has to be invoked on the object explicitly.
If the constructor is not defined, then a default constructor is provided by the java compiler.,  	If a method is not defined, then the compiler does not provide it.
The constructor name should be equal to the class name.	, The name of the method can have any name or have a class name too.
- 


is-a relationship:
It is fundamental concept in oops called inheritance.
The "is-a" relationship indicates that a class (subclass or child class) inherits from another class (superclass or parent class).
The child class inherits attributes and methods from the parent class, meaning it can use or override them.
Example:

For example, if you have a base class called Animal, and a subclass called Dog, you can say that a Dog is an Animal. This implies:
Dog inherits properties (like name, age) and behaviors (like eat(), sleep()) from Animal.


Which among String or String Buffer should be preferred when there are lot of updates required to be done in the data?
StringBuffer is mutable and dynamic in nature whereas String is immutable. Every updation / modification of String creates a new String thereby overloading the string pool with unnecessary objects.
Hence, in the cases of a lot of updates, 
it is always preferred to use StringBuffer as it will reduce the overhead of the creation of multiple String objects in the string pool.


Serialization in Java is the process of converting an object into a byte stream, which can then be easily saved to a file or sent over a network.
- This allows you to persist the state of an object, enabling you to retrieve it later. 


What happens if the static modifier is not included in the main method signature in Java?
There wouldn't be any compilation error. But then the program is run, since the JVM cant map the main method signature, the code throws “NoSuchMethodError” error at the runtime


Cloning in Java:
- It is process of making copy of an object.
- This useful when u want to create a new object that has same prop of the existing object. Any modifications made to the cloned object will not affect original object.

Types of clonning: Shallow copy and deep copy // need to see.



How do exceptions affect the program if it doesn't handle them?
Exceptions are runtime errors. Suppose we are making an android application with java.
And it all works fine but there is an exceptional case when the application tries to get the file from storage and the file doesn’t exist (This is the case of exception in java).
And if this case is not handled properly then the application will crash. This will be a bad experience for users.  
This is the type of error that cannot be controlled by the programmer. But programmers can take some steps to avoid this so that the application won’t crash. 


Is it mandatory for a catch block to be followed after a try block?
No, it is not necessary for a catch block to be present after a try block. - A try block should be followed either by a catch block or by a finally block.


 Can you call a constructor of a class inside the another constructor?
Yes, the concept can be termed as constructor chaining and can be achieved using this().








